docs/developer_guides/viewer/custom_gui.md, before:

# Custom GUI

We provide support for custom viewer GUI elements that can be defined in any `nn.Module`. Although we don't have any specific use cases in mind, here are some examples of what can be achieved with this feature:

- Using text input to modify the rendering
- Logging numerical values to the viewer
- Using checkboxes to turn off and on losses
- Using a dropdown to switch between appearances

## Adding an Element

To define a custom element, create an instance of one of the provided classes in `nerfstudio.viewer.server.viewer_elements`, and assign it as a class variable in your `nn.Module`.

```python
from nerfstudio.viewer.server.viewer_elements import ViewerNumber

class MyClass(nn.Module):#must inherit from nn.Module
    def __init__(self):
        # Must be a class variable
        self.custom_value = ViewerNumber(name="My Value", default_value=1.0)
```
**Element Hierarchy**
The viewer recursively searches all `nn.Module` children of the base `Pipeline` object, and arranges parameters into folders based on their variable names. 
For example, a `ViewerElement` defined in `pipeline.model.field` will be in the "Custom/model/field" folder in the GUI.

**Reading the value**
To read the value of a custom element, simply access its `value` attribute. In this case it will be `1.0` unless modified by the user in the viewer.

```python
current_value = self.custom_value.value
```

**Callbacks**
You can register a callback that will be called whenever a new value for your GUI element is available. For example, one can use a callback to update config parameters when elements are changed:
```python
def on_change_callback(handle: GuiHandle):
    self.config.example_parameter = handle.get_value()

self.custom_checkbox = ViewerCheckbox(
    name="Checkbox",
    default_value = False,
    cb_hook = on_change_callback
)
```
The GuiHandle value is a viser object which you can use to get the new value.

**Thread safety**
Note that `ViewerElement` values can change asynchronously to model execution. So, it's best practice to store the value of a viewer element once at the beginning
of a forward pass and refer to the static variable afterwards.
```python
class MyModel(Model):
    def __init__(self):
        self.slider = ViewerSlider(name="Slider", default_value=0.5, min_value=0.0, max_value=1.0)

    def get_outputs(self,ray)
        slider_val = self.slider.value
        #self.slider.value could change after this, unsafe to use

```


**Writing to the element**
You can write to a viewer element in Python, which provides a convenient way to track values in your code without the need for wandb/tensorboard or relying on `print` statements.

```python
self.custom_value = x
```

:::{admonition} Warning
:class: warning

Note that updating module state while training can have unexpected side effects. It is up to the user to ensure that GUI actions are safe. In most cases, we recommend wrapping GUI related logic in `if self.training:` to ensure that the effects are only applied during inference.
:::

## Example Elements

```{image} imgs/custom_controls.png
:align: center
:width: 400
```

This was created with the following elements:

```python
from nerfstudio.viewer.server.viewer_elements import *

class MyModel(Model):
    def __init__(self):
        self.a = ViewerButton(name="My Button", cb_hook=self.handle_btn)
        self.b = ViewerNumber(name="Number", default_value=1.0)
        self.c = ViewerCheckbox(name="Checkbox", default_value=False)
        self.d = ViewerDropdown(name="Dropdown", default_value="A", options=["A", "B"])
        self.e = ViewerSlider(name="Slider", default_value=0.5, min_value=0.0, max_value=1.0)
        self.f = ViewerText(name="Text", default_value="Hello World")
        self.g = ViewerVec3(name="3D Vector", default_value=(0.1, 0.7, 0.1))

        self.rgb_renderer = RGBRenderer()
...
class RGBRenderer(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        #lives in "Custom/model/rgb_renderer" GUI folder
        self.a = ViewerRGB(name="F", default_value=(0.1, 0.7, 0.1))
...
```

For more information on the available classes and their arguments, refer to the [API documentation](../../reference/api/viewer.rst)

Commit message:

Docs fixes for viewer elements (#1770)

docs/developer_guides/viewer/custom_gui.md, after:

# Custom GUI

We provide support for custom viewer GUI elements that can be defined in any `nn.Module`. Although we don't have any specific use cases in mind, here are some examples of what can be achieved with this feature:

- Using text input to modify the rendering
- Logging numerical values to the viewer
- Using checkboxes to turn off and on losses
- Using a dropdown to switch between appearances

## Adding an Element

To define a custom element, create an instance of one of the provided classes in `nerfstudio.viewer.server.viewer_elements`, and assign it as a class variable in your `nn.Module`.

```python
from nerfstudio.viewer.server.viewer_elements import ViewerNumber

class MyClass(nn.Module):#must inherit from nn.Module
    def __init__(self):
        # Must be a class variable
        self.custom_value = ViewerNumber(name="My Value", default_value=1.0)
```
**Element Hierarchy**
The viewer recursively searches all `nn.Module` children of the base `Pipeline` object, and arranges parameters into folders based on their variable names. 
For example, a `ViewerElement` defined in `pipeline.model.field` will be in the "Custom/model/field" folder in the GUI.

**Reading the value**
To read the value of a custom element, simply access its `value` attribute. In this case it will be `1.0` unless modified by the user in the viewer.

```python
current_value = self.custom_value.value
```

**Callbacks**
You can register a callback that will be called whenever a new value for your GUI element is available. For example, one can use a callback to update config parameters when elements are changed:
```python
def on_change_callback(handle: ViewerCheckbox) -> None:
    self.config.example_parameter = handle.value

self.custom_checkbox = ViewerCheckbox(
    name="Checkbox",
    default_value=False,
    cb_hook=on_change_callback,
)
```

**Thread safety**
Note that `ViewerElement` values can change asynchronously to model execution. So, it's best practice to store the value of a viewer element once at the beginning
of a forward pass and refer to the static variable afterwards.
```python
class MyModel(Model):
    def __init__(self):
        self.slider = ViewerSlider(name="Slider", default_value=0.5, min_value=0.0, max_value=1.0)

    def get_outputs(self,ray)
        slider_val = self.slider.value
        #self.slider.value could change after this, unsafe to use

```


**Writing to the element**
You can write to a viewer element in Python, which provides a convenient way to track values in your code without the need for wandb/tensorboard or relying on `print` statements.

```python
self.custom_value.value = x
```

:::{admonition} Warning
:class: warning

Updating module state while training can have unexpected side effects. It is up to the user to ensure that GUI actions are safe. Conditioning on `self.training` can help determine whether effects are applied during forward passes for training or rendering.
:::

## Example Elements

```{image} imgs/custom_controls.png
:align: center
:width: 400
```

This was created with the following elements:

```python
from nerfstudio.viewer.server.viewer_elements import *

class MyModel(Model):
    def __init__(self):
        self.a = ViewerButton(name="My Button", cb_hook=self.handle_btn)
        self.b = ViewerNumber(name="Number", default_value=1.0)
        self.c = ViewerCheckbox(name="Checkbox", default_value=False)
        self.d = ViewerDropdown(name="Dropdown", default_value="A", options=["A", "B"])
        self.e = ViewerSlider(name="Slider", default_value=0.5, min_value=0.0, max_value=1.0)
        self.f = ViewerText(name="Text", default_value="Hello World")
        self.g = ViewerVec3(name="3D Vector", default_value=(0.1, 0.7, 0.1))

        self.rgb_renderer = RGBRenderer()
...
class RGBRenderer(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        #lives in "Custom/model/rgb_renderer" GUI folder
        self.a = ViewerRGB(name="F", default_value=(0.1, 0.7, 0.1))
...
```

For more information on the available classes and their arguments, refer to the [API documentation](../../reference/api/viewer.rst)
